
## Introduction
Montecarlo simulations are useful techniques for simulating certain physical phenomena where randomn effects contribute signifigantly to the system. One example of this is diffufsion limited aggregation (DLA) which shows up in the growth of crystals thorugh electrochemical deposition, dielectric breakdown, and the growth of bacteria colonies under the constraint of scarce nutrients. Therefore, these structures are worth studying for their novel applications. 

## Algorithms and Theory
Fractals are loosely charecterized by having arbitrary complexity as you zoom into them. The fractals that we are intersted in are those generated by DLA. Roughly speaking, the algorithm is simple. You start with a seed point, and then you recursivley walk points until the stick to the aggregate. As points are added, the aggreagte grows and a fractal structure is formed. However, direct implimentation of this algorithm results in an innefficient program that struggles to quickly plot more than one thousand particles. 

The first step in generating a DLA fractal is deciding a useful data structure to store it. This program will use a 2D numpy array. This is because they are indexed, allowing a simple way to take discrete steps, and there is a numpy function called imshow that trivializes plotting an array. The first thing we need is a way check if our point that we are walking has come up to the aggregtes. This is done through the neighbors function. It takes in the aggregate (agg) and a list of coordinats (coords) and the length of the array along one side (L). 
```python
import numpy as np

#Takes in the array aggreate (Agg) a point (coords) and the length of the space we're in
def Neighbors(Agg, coords, Length): 
    X, Y = coords #coordinates passed in as the list [X, Y] 

    x_low = max([X - 1, 0])           # If X - 1 goes out of the array, then go to 0
    x_high = min([X + 1, Length - 1]) # If X + 1 goes out of the array, then go to L - 1

    y_low = max([Y - 1, 0])            # If Y - 1 goes out of the array, then go to 0
    y_high =  min([Y + 1, Length - 1]) # If Y + 1 goes out of the array, then go to L - 1

    #check for neighbors by counting the nonzero elements in the 8 neighbors of the point
    return np.count_nonzero(Agg[y_low:y_high+1, x_low:x_high+1])
```
The next thing is a way to walk the particle from one set of coordinates to the next. This is achieved through the walk function.
```python
def Walk(coords, Length): #This can be refined later.
    X, Y = coords

    if X == 0: #at the left
        X += 1
    elif X == Length-1: #at the right
        X -= 1
    else:
        X += np.random.choice([-1,0, 1])

    if Y == 0: # at the top
        Y += 1
    elif Y == Length-1: #at the bottom
        Y -= 1
    else:
        Y += np.random.choice([-1,0, 1])
        
    return [int(X),int(Y)]
```
It takes in similar arguments to neighbors, and it returns the coordinates after moving its indices. It also has edge cases to account for a point at the edge of the array. This brings us to how we are going to sample our new points. Instead of sampling the points randomly in the array, we define an effective radius that is the largest distance from an aggregate point to the center. Then, we will sample our new points along a short distance past that radius so that we primarily grow the outer parts of the aggregate. The sampling is done by the StartPoint function. In the implementaion, there are some terms in regference to a histogram that have not yet been described. 
```python
def StartPoint(start_radius, Length, angle_histo, bin_edges):

    theta = ChooseAngle(angle_histo, bin_edges)

    x = (Length-1)//2 + (start_radius)*np.cos(theta)
    y = (Length-1)//2 + (start_radius)*np.sin(theta)

    #edge cases to keep poits in the array
    if x < 0:
        x = 0
    if x > Length-1:
        x = Length-1

    if y < 0:
        y = 0
    if y > Length-1:
        y = Length-1

    return [int(x), int(y)] 
```
Like the walk function, this has edge cases to keep points in the array. The next adjustment is introduction of a kill radius. Whenever the points walks too far away, we simply start it again at a new sample point. This is implemeneted later on. One issue that has yet to be addressed is sampling our points so close to the aggregate on a uniform aangular distribution. Diffusion process are laplacian, so the potential generated by the aggregate when treating it as a source becomes approximatley unfiform at large radius. This means that, at large distances, sampling along a uniform angular dimension is perfectly valid. However, this would require increasing the distance a particle has to walk which thus drives up the run time. A solution to this is an adaptive sampling that favors underprepresented angles. 
qqq
    A) We can instead quantify their difference from objects of classical geometry by lookin at different measures of
       dimension such as the capacity dimension and the topological dimension.
         1) Capacity dimension, aka box counting dimension, is determined by covering the plot in boxes and repeatedly
            shrinking them and counting how many contain a point of the fractal.
         2) Topological dimension is the number of independent directions you can move locally within a space.

2) Sample code and explanation for how the DLA algorithm works. This is left non-specific for now since the algorithm is still being tweaked.
    A) The DLA aggregate is stored as a 2D numpy array. There are three primary functions that are used to compute it.
      1) The first function looks at an input point and checks for neighbors in the surrounding array.
      2) The next function does a step of a random walk for a point input into the array.
      3) The last function uses the first two. It starts a random point and walks it until it is next to a neighbor and
         then adds it to the array.
    B) FIrst plot showing a sample DLA plot.

## Capacity Dimension of the DLA
1) Sample code for calculating the capacity dimension.
    A) Plot of the capacity dimension as a function of stickiness

## Animations for N = 10^6 and other interesting plots
